Last week, we focused on creating
the more conventional
chart types and
techniques involved in modifying
them to tell exactly
the story we wanted.
Now, I understand that
often the standard charts
are the best choice,
but presumably there are times
where we would use a
less conventional chat.
Absolutely. Sometimes we may have
a more specific
requirement or we may
just need to grab our
audience's attention.
So this week, we're going
to look at some of the new,
more specialized
charts that has been
included in the newer
versions of Excel,
and we're also going to look at
some creative charting
techniques for
creating our own
specialized charts.
It is important we cover some
of these exciting new features.
But what about for
our learners who
have older versions of Excel?
Yeah, they may find that
some of the chart
types we'll look at,
are not available to them yet.
But I still encourage
them to watch the videos
and in one of the videos
this week and in the
practice challenge,
we will actually show them
some great work-arounds for
creating nearly all of
the charts we look at.
That's great, Nikki.
So what are we starting
with this week?
Well, first up we're
going to look at
sunburst and treemap charts,
these are examples
of hierarchy charts,
and they're excellent for
depicting hierarchical
breakdowns.
So for example, I
might use them to show
sales volume by a
branch within region.
Great example and then
after hierarchy chart,
we're going to have a
look at waterfall charts.
These are typically used for
financial data because
they allow us to show how,
when we add and subtract
values from initial balance,
how we get to our final total.
Then we're going to have
a look at funnel charts.
I see quite a lot
of funnel charts.
Easy to spot as there
are a funnel shape,
and usually used to
show the amount of
potential revenue for each
stage in the process.
Yeah, that's right.
They're quite new in
Excel and a little bit basic,
but they're very easy to use.
Then after that, we're going to
look at probably my favorite,
which are map charts.
Provided with a valid
geographical dataset,
they can actually
compare values on a map.
Just brilliant.
Now, when you say
geographical data,
do you mean the coordinates?
No. It can just be county,
state, country, or
city, data is fine.
But sometimes it helps
to qualify the data.
So if I were doing UK
counties for example,
I would also include
a column detailing if
they were in England,
Scotland, for example.
Fantastic that Excel
is making all of
these new chart types
available to us.
But coming back to something
you said in the first week,
can excel animate our charts?
Well, it's not built-in yet.
But with a simple macro, yes,
and that's exactly what we'll be
looking at in the fourth video.
Even with all these
new chart types,
there may still be
visualizations we
want to create that
aren't available yet.
Yeah, that's true, but this
is what I love most about
Excel because it gives us
so much creative control.
With a little imagination,
we can actually create
our own amazing visualizations
and we're going
to look at a great example of
this in our last video this week.
So lots of exciting
content this week
looking at hierarchy, waterfall,
funnel, and map charts,
as well as creating and
animating our own custom charts.
Download those workbooks and
work along where you can.
There's another fantastic
practice challenge
and if you don't have all
the chart types discussed,
it will give you some
great work-arounds
for the hierarchy,
waterfall and map charts.
We're very excited to
see the visualizations
you start creating
with your own data.
So please post them in this
week's creative corner.
No assessment this week,
so just have fun.